Add Insights documentation (#259)
wso2/docs-choreo-dev: en/docs/insights/derive-insights.md

# Derive Insights

> This section explains how you can derive insights about the performance of your Choreo instance via the Analytics Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section explains how you can derive insights about the APIs deployed in your organization. 
```

> ## Access the Insights Portal

Author: "insights Portal' is the name of the component. So we can't have it in simple case.

> ## Access the Insights Portal

Reviewer 2: Right now when we click insights we go to page in the Choreo Console itself right? So does it really make sense to call this "Insights Portal"?

> ## Access the Insights Portal

Author: Referred to it as "page" in all the places.

> ## Access the Analytics Portal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Access the Inisghts Portal
```

> To access the Analytics Portal, into the Choreo Console at [https://console.choreo.dev/](https://console.choreo.dev/), and click **Try now** on the **Insights** card.

Reviewer: This is not true anymore. The insights charts appear as soon as you click on the insights menu on the left navigation bar.

Author: Changed this. Please check.

> To access the Analytics Portal, access the Choreo Console at [https://console.choreo.dev/](https://console.choreo.dev/), and click **Try now** on the **Insights** card, or click **Insights** in the left navigation menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the Insights Portal, access the Choreo Console at [https://console.choreo.dev/](https://console.choreo.dev/), and click **Try now** on the **Insights** card, or click **Insights** in the left navigation menu.
```

## Analyzing statistics

> Once you access the Analytics Portal, you can view the following information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you access the Insights Portal, you can view the following information.
```

### Overview

> This page gives you a quick overview of the whole system. The targeted audiences for the page are managers and business users who need quick insight. Also, this page can be used as a dashboard to view the current system status.

Author: Addressed the 2nd and 3rd comments. Regarding the first comment, we are referring to the portal page.

> This page gives you a quick overview of the whole management system. The targeted audiences for the page are managers and business users who need quick insight. Also, this page can be used as a dashboard to view the current system status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page gives you a quick overview of the whole system. The targeted audiences for the page are managers and business users who need quick insight. Also, this page can be used as a dashboard to view the current system status.
```

![Overview](../assets/img/insights/overview.png){.cInlineImage-full}

> The information displayed is as follows:

Reviewer 3: we are specifically only describing the widgets below. But won't this give the idea that this is the whole overview page we are talking about?

> The information displayed is as follows:

Reviewer 3: I think I misunderstood this section. We can keep it as it is.

> - **Total Traffic**

Author: Yes. That was the intention.

    ![Total traffic](../assets/img/insights/overview-page-total-traffic.png){.cInlineImage-half}

    This widget displays the total traffic your selected environment received during the selected time range. This includes both successful requests and error requests. To investigate further, you can click the arrow icon on the bottom right corner of the widget to open the [**Traffic** page](#traffic)
    

> - **Error request count**

Author: Used the widget name as it is.

> - **Error request count**

Reviewer 2: Seems like we have used title capitalization to reflect the widget name in the UI with regard to all other widgets. Should. we use title caps here too?

Author: Done

    ![Error request count](../assets/img/insights/overview-page-error-request-count.png){.cInlineImage-half}

    This widget displays the total number of requests that have resulted in errors in your selected environment during the selected time range.
    
- **Average Error Rate**

    ![Average error rate](../assets/img/insights/overview-page-error-rate.png){.cInlineImage-half}

>     This widget displays the average error rate (error count/total request count) in your selected environment for the selected time interval. You can use this widget as an indicator to know the health of the system. If the error rate is high, investigate further using the Viewing API Analytics on Errors. 

Author: Done

- **95th Percentile Latency**

    ![95th percentile latency](../assets/img/insights/overview-page-error-rate.png){.cInlineImage-half}

>     This widget displays the 95th percentile of all API latencies in your selected environment for the selected time interval. You can use this widget to know whether the whole system operates under given SLAs. This metric gives the first indication of slow APIs. To investigate further, see Viewing API Analytics on Latency. 

Author: Linked to the **Latency** section.

- **API Request Summary**

    ![API request summary](../assets/img/insights/overview-page-timeline.png){.cInlineImage-full}

>     This chart combines the above three widgets and plots them in a timeline. The y-axis on the left displays the request count and the error count. The x-axis shows time, and the y-axis on the right shows the latency in milliseconds. The granularity of the data points is decided based on the time range you have selected. The tooltip provides the exact value of all three metrics accurately.

Author: Corrected

### Traffic

> This page shows information related to the traffic that goes through your API management system. This includes API usage, application usage, resource usage, etc. You can use this page to investigate the usage of APIs and applications, traffic patterns, etc.

Reviewer 3: API Management system?

Reviewer 3: When we say applications, what do we mean? in Choreo also we had the word applications. I am wondering if that would cause a confusion.

Author: We no longer use the word "applications" for Choreo services and integrations. "Applications" here are the client applications that have subscribed to the APIs.

Author: Used the word "API management deployments"

![Traffic](../assets/img/insights/traffic-page-full.png){.cInlineImage-full}

You can filter the information displayed in the widgets as follows:

| **Filtering Option** | **Description** |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | **By API**         | In the **API** field, you can select the APIs for which you want to view analytics. **All** is selected by default. You can select one or multiple APIs from this selector and view the aggregated result. Once you select an API, you can further filter by a specific application that uses the selected API via the **Application** field described below. |

Reviewer 3: Shall we combine the two sentences as follows: "In the **API** field, you can select one or more APIs for which you want to view analytics."
Is application filtering a second level filtering?

Author: Done

| **By Application** | In the **Application** field, you can select the applications for which you want to view analytics. **All** is selected by default. The available applications are all the applications that have subscribed to one or more of the APIs you selected in the **API** field.|

> The information you can view is as follows:

Reviewer 3: You can view the following insights of the APIs  you have selected using the above filtering criteria:

Author: Done

 - **API Usage Over Time**
 

>     This timeline shows the count of API hits for the APIs you selected using the above-mentioned selectors. If multiple APIs are selected, the timeline shows each API in a separate line with a legend separating each line. You can also zoom in on a selected time range by selecting that area in the chart. To restore to the original view use the **Zoom out** button on the top right-hand corner of the plot.

Reviewer 3: This timeline shows the count of API hits for the filtered APIs.

Author: Done

    ![API usage over time](../assets/img/insights/api-usage-timeline.png){.cInlineImage-full}
    
 - **API Usage By Application** 
 

>     This widget shows the per-application breakdown of requests for the APIs you selected. You can use the pie chart view or the line chart view. You can switch between the two views using the small icon at the upper-right corner of the widget.

Reviewer 3: for the filtered APIs.

Author: Done

 
    ![API usage by application](../assets/img/insights/usage-by-application.png){.cInlineImage-half}
 
 - **API Usage By Backend**
 
    This widget shows the per-backend breakdown of requests for the APIs you selected. This is useful when multiple APIs are sharing the same backend, which has traffic restrictions. You can use these stats to proactively scale your backends. You can switch between the two views using the small icon at the upper-right corner of the widget.
 
    ![API usage by backend](../assets/img/insights/usage-by-backend.png){.cInlineImage-half}
 
 - **API Resource Usage**
 
    This table shows a resource-level breakdown of API traffic. Each row represents an API resource and it shows the API name, resource path, API method, and the hit count for that combination.
    
    ![API resource usage](../assets/img/insights/resource-usage.png){.cInlineImage-half}
    
### Errors

> This page shows information related to erroneous API calls that are received by your system. The errors are categorization based on the error type. You can further drill down using the error subtypes. Use this page as the starting point for debugging any API errors.

Reviewer 3: by Choreo?

Reviewer 3: The errors are categorized?

Author: The information in the Insights portal is not just related to API calls received by Choreo, but by many environments including on-premise. Actually, the information in a page at a given time is for a specific combination of organization, environment and tenant. Therefore, used the word "system".

![Error statistics](../assets/img/insights/error-page-full.png){.cInlineImage-full}

You can filter the information displayed in the widgets as follows:

| **Filtering Option** | **Description** |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **By API** | In the **API** field, select the APIs for which you want to view analytics. By default, all APIs are selected. You can select one or multiple APIs from this selector and view the aggregated result. |

> | **By Category** | The **Category** field is displayed when you click **Category** in the toggle switch in the upper right corner of the page. In this field, you can select one or all of the following error categories:<br/>**Authentication**: Any kind of authentication error falls into this category including expired/missing/invalid credentials.<br/>**Target Connectivity**: Any kind of API back-end error falls into this category including connection time-outs/other back-end errors (for example, 4xx and 5xx status codes).<br/>**Throttling**: Any kind of API back-end error falls into this category including application throttling/subscription throttling.<br/>**Other**: All other errors fall into this category including mediation errors/resource not found errors. |

Reviewer 3: located at the upper right corner?  
there seemed to be too mane "in the" phrases.
Target connectivity and throttling both say "Any kind of API back-end error falls into this category including "..

Author: Changed

> | **By Status Code** | The **Status Code** field is displayed when you click **Status Code** in the toggle switch in the upper right corner of the page. In this field, you can select all or any available HTTP status code category (4xx, 5xx, etc.). These status codes represent the response status of the API Gateway. |

Reviewer 3: sounds like there are too many "in the" phases in the first sentence.

Author: Changed

#### Category mode

> The following widgets are available for monitoring errors when you have selected the category mode via the toggle switch in the upper-right corner of the page.

Reviewer 3: shall we make "category mode" bold?
also should we say the catergory mode? we are talking about an input value right?

Author: It is not an input value. Used the word to refer to the mode in which data is displayed when **Category** switch button is selected.

Reviewer 3: shall we not refer to it as "category mode"?

Author: Changed

- **Errors by Category** (graph)

>     This graph shows the error category distribution over time for the selected period. Apply the required filters as explained above to select the APIs and the error categories to which this content applies. When you select multiple APIs, the error count is grouped by category.

Reviewer 3: error category distribution -> errors by category over time for the selected period.

Reviewer 3: Apply the required filters as explained above to select the APIs and the error categories to customize the result.

Author: Done

    ![Errors by category graph](../assets/img/insights/error-category-graph.png){.cInlineImage-full}
    

> - **Errors by Category** (table)

Reviewer 3: Do we need to have 2 headings? can't we just have one heading and have two images with two descriptions?

Author: In the UI, the name is used twice for the two widgets. The graph and the table are not together under one heading. Followed the same approach for consistency.

Reviewer 3: It under one heading right? I only see one heading in the screenshot.

Author: Changed. The UI previously had two headings. Now it is changed in the UI as well.

>     This table provides further information about the errors such as application details and the error reason. For some authentication errors, the application name is not available. You can use this table to get more concrete information about the errors related to your APIs and then start the problem isolation process.

Reviewer 3: problem isolation process. -> root cause analysis or problem identification?

Author: Done

 
    ![Errors by category table](../assets/img/insights/error-category-table.png){.cInlineImage-full}
    

> #### Status Code mode

Reviewer 2: We can have this as "Status code mode" right?

Author: Done

> The following widgets are available for monitoring errors when you have selected the status code mode via the toggle switch in the upper-right corner of the page.

Reviewer 3: here too since we are talking about an input, shall we make "status code mode"  bold?

Author: There is no input value called "status code mode". It is a switch.
<img width="275" alt="Screenshot 2021-09-06 at 14 22 55" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26239861/132189235-6c7139cb-f70f-4789-8e3b-929f1e1db115.png">

Reviewer 2: It doesn't seem correct to say toggle switch. Shall we rephrase the sentence accordingly? I guess we can replace "when you have selected" with "when you select" too.

Author: Changed this. Please check.

- **Errors by Status Code**

>     This graph shows the distribution of HTTP status codes (of the errors) over time for the selected period. Apply the required filters as explained above to select the APIs and status code groups to which this content applies. When you select multiple APIs, the error count is grouped by the status code.

Reviewer 3: HTTP status codes received for errors

Reviewer 3: to customize the result?

Author: Addressed the first comment.

Which part does the 2nd comment apply to?

    
- **Proxy Errors**

    Proxy errors heatmap shows the HTTP response codes of errors that are sent to the client by the API Gateway. Each status code is shown against the selected APIs. The cell color is determined by the number of errors belonging to each status code. The cell color is red for higher numbers and white for lower numbers. Use this chart to further drill down on error code groups that you identified with the **Errors by Status Code** graph.
    
    ![Proxy errors](../assets/img/insights/proxy-error-heatmap.png){.cInlineImage-full}
    
- **Target Errors**

    Target errors heatmap shows the HTTP response codes of errors that are received by the API Gateway from the backend. Each status code is shown against the selected APIs. The cell color is determined by the number of errors belonging to each status code. The cell color is red for higher numbers and white for lower numbers. Use this chart to further drill down on error code groups that you identified with the **Errors by Status Code** graph.

     ![Target errors](../assets/img/insights/target-error-heatmap.png){.cInlineImage-full}
    
### Latency

> This page shows information related to the latency of API calls within the API management deployment. You can view a summary of the slowest APIs and then drill down into the API view for further analysis. Use this page as the starting point for debugging API slowness.

Reviewer 3: API Management deployment?

Reviewer 2: Suggestion with regard to last sentence:
Use this page as a starting point to debug API slowness.

Author: Done

![Latency](../assets/img/insights/latency-page-full.png){.cInlineImage-full}

The information displayed is as follows:

- **Top 10 Slowest APIs**

>     This widget allows you to identify the slowest APIs of the API management system at a glance. Since these are the APIs that contribute to the higher 95th percentile of the system, improving these APIs lowers the 95th percentile of latency in the API Management system.

Reviewer 3: API Management system?

Author: Changed to "API Management deployments"

    ![Slowest APIs](../assets/img/insights/slowest-apis.png){.cInlineImage-full}

- **Latencies By Category**

>     This widget allows you to further drill down details in the above chart. Use the API selector in this widget to select the slow API you identified in the earlier step and then troubleshoot further. Use the charts available in the widget to view the 95th percentile and the median latency of the components given below over the selected period.

Author: Addressed the 2nd and 3rd comments. Regarding the 1st comment, are you suggesting having a link to the chart showing slow APIs?

    - Backend
    - Request mediation
    - Response mediation
    
    ![Latencies by category](../assets/img/insights/latency-by-category.png){.cInlineImage-full}
    

>     You can use these charts to drill down to the component level where the slowness occurs. Also, because you can see both the median and 95th percentile, you can easily identify whether the slowness is occurring in each request or whether it is intermittent.

Author: Updated this to make it clearer.

### Cache

This page shows statistics that indicate the efficiency with which response caching is carried out for the requests sent to your APIs.

![Cache statistics](../assets/img/insights/cache-page-full.png){.cInlineImage-full}

This page contains the following graphs:

- **Cache Hit Percentage**

>     This graph shows the percentage of requests that were processed via the response cache instead of being sent to the backend over time. Assess the efficiency with which the API requests are handled. For example, if the cache hit rate is low, it indicates that the backend is processing the same data multiple times as a result of requests not being served via the cache. In such a scenario, there is scope to improve performance via response caching.

Author: Changed

    ![Cache hit percentagle](../assets/img/insights/cache-hit-percentage.png){.cInlineImage-full}

- **Cache Hit/Miss**

>     This section shows the number of requests that hit and missed the cache over time, and the latency that occurred at the same times. 

Author: Done

>     ![Cache hits abd misses](../assets/img/insights/cache-statistics.png){.cInlineImage-full}

Reviewer 2: typo with regard to the term "and".

Author: Corrected

    
### Devices

> This page displays information about Operating System platforms and HTTP Agents end users are using to invoke the APIs. You can use this page to get an idea of the distribution of your user base and improve your APIs to match the audience.

Author: Changed to simple case.

![Device statistics](../assets/img/insights/devices-page-full.png){.cInlineImage-full}

To filter the information displayed on this page by API, select the required API(s) in the **API** field. **All** is selected by default.

The information displayed is as follows:

- **Top Platforms**

>     This chart shows the Operating System Platform wise breakdown of the API clients. The pie chart only shows platforms with a significant amount of requests. Other platforms are grouped under the **Other** category.

Author: Changed

    ![Top platforms](../assets/img/insights/top-platforms.png){.cInlineImage-half}

- **Top User Agents**

    This chart shows the breakdown of the API clients based on user-agent. The pie chart only shows user agents with a significant amount of requests. Other platforms are grouped under the **Other** category.

    ![Top user agents](../assets/img/insights/top-user-agents.png){.cInlineImage-half}
    

> ### Alerts

Author: The UI has it that way. Therefore, followed the same approach.

> ### Alerts

Reviewer 3: that's right, but in the UI, they have a left navigation for that. Also our docs are not necessarily a 1:1 mapping of the UI.

> ### Alerts

Author: Moved this section to a separate page. This new page is under **Insights** at present until the we have a section for API configurations.

> This page shows information related to business alerts issued by Choreo for your currently selected environment and organization. You can use this page as a health monitoring dashboard and make it visible to your project team. Using this page you can drill down on each alert and discover possible anomalies in your published APIs. See the topics given below to get details of the available widgets and understand how to use them to the best effect.

Author: Changed

> This page shows information related to business alerts issued by Choreo for your currently selected environment and organization. You can use this page as a health monitoring dashboard and make it visible to your project team. Using this page you can drill down on each alert and discover possible anomalies or errors in your published APIs. See the topics given below to get details of the available widgets and understand how to use them to the best effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows information related to business alerts issued by Choreo for your currently selected environment and organization. You can use this page as a health monitoring dashboard and make it visible to your project team. Using this page you can drill down on each alert and discover possible anomalies in your published APIs. See the topics given below to get details of the available widgets and understand how to use them to the best effect.
```

**Prerequisites**

> To use this page, be sure to configure alerts and have API invocations that trigger alerts. For instructions, see [Alert Configuration]

Author: Added

> !!! Tip

Author: Done

    Alerts are retained only for a week.

- **Alert Summary**

>     This table lists down each alert generated during the selected time interval. The message of the alert can be viewed by expanding the arrow icon on the details column. The dropdowns can be used to filter alerts based on type and API.

Author: Changed

    ![Alert summary](../assets/img/insights/alert-summary.png){.cInlineImage-full}

> - **Top APIs by Alert**

Author: Corrected

>     This shows a pie chart and a table to visualize the alert distribution during the selected time interval.

Author: "During" is clearer when it is about time. What do you think?

>     This shows a pie chart and a table to visualize the alert distribution during the selected time interval.

Reviewer 3: I guess you're right.

    
    ![Top APIs by alert](../assets/img/insights/top-apis-by-alert-count.png){.cInlineImage-full}    

### Reports

> This page allows you to download monthly usage reports for your system. There are pre-configured reports with system-wide statistics, and a custom report generator to generate reports based on a subset of APIs/applications.

Author: Didn't we decide not to use the term "application" for Choreo services and integrations. For those, we can use the terms "service" and integration, but do we have an alternative for the client applications that subscribe to APIs?

> This page allows you to download monthly usage reports for your system. There are pre-configured reports with system-wide statistics, and a custom report generator to generate reports based on a subset of APIs/applications.

Reviewer 3: Oh. I think I have misunderstood.

![Report page](../assets/img/insights/report-page-full.png){.cInlineImage-full}

#### Download custom reports

> This widget allows you to generate a custom report with available stats and download it.

Author: Changed this.

![Custom report download](../assets/img/insights/custom-report.png){.cInlineImage-full}

To generate a custom report, follow the steps below:

> 1. In the **API** field, select one or more APIs for which you want to generate the report. If required, you can select all the APIs.

Author: The suggestion involves repeating the word "select". Shall we leave it this way because the "All" checkbox is quite visible and it is clear that the user needs to select that to select all the APIs?

> 1. In the **API** field, select one or more APIs for which you want to generate the report. If required, you can select all the APIs.

Reviewer 3: I think its better to explicitly mention the value.

> 1. In the **API** field, select one or more APIs for which you want to generate the report. If required, you can select all the APIs.

Author: Changed.

> 2. To further filter the content printed in the report, select one or more applications in the **Application** field. By default, all the applications that have subscribed to one or more of the selected APIs are selected.

Author: Changed

|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Generated Time**      | The date and the time the report was generated.                                            |
| **Organization**        | The organization to which the report applies. Each report always applies to a specific organization. |
| **Environment**         | The environment to which the report applies. Each report always applies to a specific environment.  |
| **Tenant**              | The tenant to which the report applies. Each report always applies to a specific tenant.            |
| **Reporting Period**    | The time interval for which the report is generated.                                       |
| **Total request count** | The total request count received by all selected APIs during the report time interval.     |

The table in the report contains the following rows:

| **Item** | **Description** |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **API Name**          | The name of the API.                                                         |

> | **Application name:** | The name of the application. The name of the subscriber is also provided within brackets. |

Author: Replaced it with a fullstop.

> | **Application name:** | The name of the application. The name of the subscriber is also provided within brackets. |

Reviewer 3: on a field value?

> | **Application name:** | The name of the application. The name of the subscriber is also provided within brackets. |

Author: Thought that you were referring to the introductory sentences. Changed the field name as well.

> | **Usage Count**       | The request count.                                                           |

Author: Done

#### Download pre-generated reports

These widgets allow you to download monthly reports for the last three months.

![Pre-generated reports](../assets/img/insights/configured-report.png){.cInlineImage-full}

To download a pre-generated report, click **Download** for the relevant month and then click on the required format.

### Alert Configuration

> This page allows you to configure alerts. These alerts allow you to proactively monitor your API ecosystem and take corrective measures for any abnormalities you find.

Author: We use the word "section" to refer to a page in documentation. "Page" has always been used to refer to a page in the UI.

> This page allows you to configure alerts. These alerts allow you to proactively monitor your API ecosystem and take corrective measures for any abnormalities you find.

Reviewer 3: Yes, but it's not pretty straight forward, and we would know. But, for someone who is not a TW, would not know the usage of the terms right? better to avoid ambiguity?

> This page allows you to configure alerts. These alerts allow you to proactively monitor your API ecosystem and take corrective measures for any abnormalities you find.

Author: Referring to this kind of UI element as "page" is the practice we normally follow and we have already used it consistently in Choreo documentation in many places. See "**Integrations** page" in [1] and "**Services** page" in [2].

If we change it here, we would need to change it everywhere.

[1] https://wso2.com/choreo/docs/integrations/build-your-first-integration/
[2] https://wso2.com/choreo/docs/services/create-your-first-service/

> This page allows you to configure alerts. These alerts allow you to proactively monitor your API ecosystem and take corrective measures for any abnormalities you find.

Author: Maybe giving the name of the page before the word "page" instead of just saying "This page" would help? We will;l be repeating the title though.

> You can configure alerts for each environment within your organization separately. You can configure alerts per API as well as modify/remove already-added alert configurations. Optionally, you can specify a list of emails for each alert configuration.

Author: If e-mails are not provided, the user needs to view the alerts in the **Alerts** page in the Insights portal.

Changed as specified via the first two comments.

> Alerts are subject to a suppression policy to ensure you do not receive duplicate alert notifications. For each alert you configure, there is a 10-minute suppression window applied by default. The suppression interval is not configurable at present. In addition, note that the suppression policy is applicable per alert configuration.

Author: This is to inform the users that they will not be alerted for the same reason twice within a period of the suppression interval. So when there are multiple alerts shown, they can identify whether it is many alerts for the same reason depending on the time period in which they have occurred.

> Alerts are subject to a suppression policy to ensure you do not receive duplicate alert notifications. For each alert you configure, there is a 10-minute suppression window applied by default. The suppression interval is not configurable at present. In addition, note that the suppression policy is applicable per alert configuration.

Reviewer 3: Can we just say,"Alerts are subject to a suppression policy to ensure you do not receive duplicate alert notifications. A 10-minute suppression window is applied by default and is not configurable at present. Note that the suppression policy is applicable per alert configuration."

> Alerts are subject to a suppression policy to ensure you do not receive duplicate alert notifications. For each alert you configure, there is a 10-minute suppression window applied by default. The suppression interval is not configurable at present. In addition, note that the suppression policy is applicable per alert configuration.

Author: Changed to "Alerts are subject to a suppression policy to ensure that you do not receive duplicate alert notifications within a specific time interval. A 10-minute suppression window is applied by default, and it is not configurable at present. Note that the suppression policy is applicable per alert configuration."

!!! info
    - The maximum number of alerts that can be configured is 20 for each organization, environment, and tenant combination.
    - Adding an email to an alert configuration is optional. The maximum number of emails per alert configuration is limited to 5.
    

> The alert can be a latency alert or a traffic alert.

Reviewer 3: Shall we link off to the sections?

Author: Done

> The alert can be a latency alert or a traffic alert.

Author: In the AUI, the alert configuration section is together with the Insights pages. Arranged it the same way in documentation to maintain consistency.

> #### Latency alerts

Reviewer: No screenshots for this section?

Author: We minimise the use of screenshots in Choreo documentation. In this instance, the screenshot of the page for each step with the relevant field outlined is unnecessary because the mentioned field can be easily located in the UI.

However, used screenshots for the widgets in the Analytics portal so that users can see what it is like when the widgets are populated even when they don't have statistics in their own deployment to try it out.

Reviewer: Ack

Configure latency alerts to be notified if the response latency of APIs is greater than a predefined threshold. This is useful when you have APIs that should honor SLAs and when you want to know about slow APIs proactively.

To configure a new latency alert, follow the steps below:

1. In the Insights Portal, click **Alert Configuration** to open the **Alert Configuration** page.

    The **Latency** tab is open by default.

2. Verify that you are in the correct organization, and select the required environment. 

3. In the **API Name** field, select the API for which you want to configure the alert.

    !!! Info
        Only the APIs that you have invoked at least once are listed here. For other APIs, you need to give the API name in the required format as instructed in the UI.
        
4. In the **Metric** field, select the required metric against which you want to evaluate the alert configuration.

    !!! tip

>         The list includes all available options. If there are multiple metrics, you can select the required metric. If there is only one metric to select, that metric is selected by default, and the field is disabled. 

Reviewer 3: This is not very clear. If there are multiple, can you still only select one? 
And you mean if there is only one metric in the list?

Author: Yes. If there are multiple metrics, you can select only one.  But if only one metric is available, that only available metric is already selected in this field and you can't edit the field.

Reviewer 3: Do we need to specifically mention that? isn't that the expected behavior?

Author: If the documentation just instructs to select a value, the user might wonder why the field is greyed out and not editable. he/she might not realise it is because only one value is available.

5. In the **Latency** field, specify the threshold in milliseconds.

    !!! info
        When the 95th percentile of the selected metric exceeds the threshold provided here, alerts are triggered.
        

> 6. In the **Emails** field, specify the list of emails that should be notified when the alert is generated.

Reviewer 3: Is this optional?

Author: Yes. Changed the step accordingly.

        
7. Click **Add**.

> Once an alert is successfully added, the alert configuration is shown in the table as follows. Each configuration can be edited and removed using this table. If multiple emails are configured, they are displayed in a comma-separated list.

Reviewer 3: as follows?

Author: Corrected

#### Traffic alerts

Configure Traffic alerts to identify if the request count of APIs is greater than a predefined threshold. This is useful when you have APIs that are using backends with traffic limits or monetized backends that require your system to proactively scale depending on the incoming traffic.

> To configure a new latency alert, follow the steps below:

Reviewer 3: traffic alert?

Author: Corrected

1. In the Insights Portal, click **Alert Configuration** to open the **Alert Configuration** page.

2. Click **Traffic** to open the **Traffic** tab.

3. Verify that you are in the correct organization, and select the required environment. 

4. In the **API Name** field, select the API for which you want to configure the alert.

    !!! Info

>         Only the APIs that you have invoked at least once are listed here. For other APIs, you need to give the API name in the required format as instructed in the UI.

Reviewer 3: shall we mention the format here?

Author: The format is given below the field in the UI itself.

Reviewer 3: well if we are saying "required format ", we could make it much more clearer and tell the user exactly what the format is. That will help the reader, don't you think?

Author: It says "the required format as specified in the UI".

Then the UI gives the exact format as shown below.

<img width="332" alt="Screenshot 2021-09-09 at 12 55 22" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26239861/132641881-bbb5e196-a2b5-4241-962e-9082f82d08ab.png">

This way, even if the supported format changes, the instruction in the documentation won't be outdated.

        
5. In the **Metric** field, select the required metric against which you want to evaluate the alert configuration.

    !!! tip

>         The list includes all available options. If there are multiple metrics, you can select the required metric. If there is only one metric to select, that metric is selected by default, and the field is disabled.

Reviewer 3: please see the comment on the latency alert section.

Author: If there are multiple metrics, you can select only one.  But if only one metric is available, that only available metric is already selected in this field and you can't edit the field.

Reviewer 3: same as above.

Author: If the documentation just instructs to select a value, the user might wonder why the field is greyed out and not editable. He/she might not realise it is because only one value is available.

        
6. In the **Threshold** field, specify the threshold number of requests per minute.

> 7. In the **Emails** field, specify the list of emails that should be notified when the alert is generated.

Reviewer 3: optional?

8. Click **Add**.

> When added successfully, the alert configuration is shown in the table as follows. Each configuration can be edited and removed using this table. If multiple emails are configured, they are displayed in a comma-separated list.

Reviewer 3: follows?

Author: Corrected.
